# Strabismusdetector
Strabismusdetector is a Python program that detects strabismus in a person looking into the camera at run time. It can currently be lauched from Linux Terminal. However, I am currently working to make it a web application accessible to any computer in the world. 
# How it works
First, the program reads and processes video frames from the computer's camera to recognize a person's face and the Iris land marks using media pipe framework using ir. Then, the iris landmarks are found using the iris_landmark tensorflowlite neural network model. The distances of the right iris and left iris from the face's life of symmetry are then calculated using the iris landmarks. If there is a significant difference between the two distances, a potential presence of strabismus in the person shown in the video feed is reported. If the two distances are equal (within some error), no potential strabismus has been detected (and the program reports as such).
# Intended use
Strabismus, an eye misalignment sometimes found in children, typically requires a testing process by an eye specialist to be detected. However, its symptoms are often initially overlooked due to a lack of access to an eye specialist who can treat strabismus, a lack of awareness of the condition, or a type of misalignment that is harder to detect with general observation (such as very small or occasional deviations from the correct alignment). Early detection can prevent irreversible damage including permanent loss of depth perception. This tool is therefore intended to aid in early detection of strabismus to help people pursue diagnosis and treatment as soon as possible.
